Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season. My name is Al
James: And I'm James.
Al: And we're here today to talk about got to grow games a woo
Al: Welcome James James is someone who I have I guess I would say a friend on a friend. We've talked for quite a long time online
Al: and
Al: James is very much
Al: a poquopia person, so I thought I would get Jamie.
Al: James is there anything you want to, who are you, why are you here, what you, what you
Al: do, and think you want to talk about.
James: Yeah, starting off with like a presidential that's how a vice presidential debate started on time that guy was like, who am I, why am I here?
James: So yeah, I'm James Al, we've known each other for now for 10 years. We met at a previous, yeah, because I joined the old community in like June or July of 2016, I think, I think like the reveal of sun and moon got me like into it and then yeah, it's kind of lingered ever since.
Al: Oh. There's a bee now long.
James: We've known each other for about a decade now. And yeah, I've been playing Pokemon games and some cozy games as well. The last one I really dive into the site from Animal Crossing, of course, was the remake of a story of seasons or Harvest Mode in a wonderful life because that was like the farming game of my childhood.
Al: wonderful life right yeah fair enough fair enough yeah I never never got into it when it was
Al: first day and so never was particularly interested in the remake but Kevin and Michael were it would
James: yeah. It's one of those ones I really like because it kind of started I like it but it overwhelms me
Al: played it enough for an episode that's the important thing
James: with choices and the thing that I like about back in particular is it kind of constrained in what it
James: does and there's not as much like free form you can do anything you can go on like different
James: quest lines there's like kind of one set storyline and you can kind of do everything if you really
James: put your mind to of it.
James: So honestly, I kind of like that about Pocopeia as well where it is very open ended, but it also is very like set and what you do and it has a nice little gameplay loop.
Al: - Yeah, yeah, I think it's interesting
Al: 'cause I find that sometimes people
Al: are finding that about Stardew as they're like,
Al: "There's just too much."
Al: And what I why often respond to that is,
Al: "Well, yeah, but you don't need to."
Al: And I think the choice is what I like
James: But I want to out. But I want to do everything.
Al: and it's like, "You can do everything,"
Al: or, "You can do just some things,"
Al: and you can build up.
Al: So like, if you think about Pocopia,
Al: you can still do everything if you want,
Al: as you say there's specific things you can focus on.
Al: And that thing that people would focus on
Al: would be different for different people.
Al: So the obvious one is obviously going through the story.
Al: But not everyone will do that.
Al: There are people who will, for some reason,
Al: go and just like design the most insane buildings they can
Al: right at the beginning 'cause that's what they care about,
Al: not realizing that it gets easier as you go on.
Al: But that's a whole other issue.
James: I did see someone built a maximum security prison for Mr. Mime on Twitter and, you know,
Al: - Yeah, yeah.
James: people are very creative.
Al: - It's interesting 'cause I've never been a huge Mr. Mime fan,
Al: but I've also never been a one for the Mr. Mime hate.
Al: And I feel like people hating him so visibly,
Al: so publicly makes me want to like him more.
James: Oh, yeah. Want to stick up for them?
Al: [laughs]
James: Yeah, I mean, I haven't played, I want to use him on like a team and fire and leave green
James: But the issue with that is like you can only get the in-game treat in one and I'm like, I would like my own Mr.
James: Mine instead of what was his name in the English version was like my Mia or something like that
Al: I think I've only played Fire Red and Leaf Green once.
Al: I played the originals, obviously, a billions of times.
Al: But the remakes came out during my break period from Pokemon.
James: There we go.
Al: So I played Gen 1, Gen 2, and then Gen 3 came out and that was when I was like, "Oh,
Al: I'm too cool for Pokemon, spoiler alert, I wasn't, and then came back."
James: [laughs]
Al: During Hargold Souls over.
Al: So I missed all of Gen 3 and then, basically, all of Gen 4.
James: I'm gonna say miss gen five just because that was my
James: Like transition from college to from high school to college and so I just had no time
Al: [laughing]
James: And so I got back into it. I played those games, but then I got back into it more with x and y
Al: Yeah, that probably says a lot more about our the different studies that we did and how
Al: not difficult mine was because that was when I found more time to do these things.
James: I will put say that mine was not difficult,
James: but I did it extremely quickly.
James: So I went through my four years of college
James: and two and a half years.
James: And I was also doing like three internships
James: and like eight classes at once, just to get out fast.
James: So the amount of the lack of time that I had
James: was mostly self-inflicted.
Al: well fair enough all right so this episode we're going to talk about the the map of
Al: PCOPIA the different areas we're going to talk about what we like about the
Al: different areas stuff like that and and then I thought it would be fun to talk
Al: about some areas that we think they should add to the game and right at the
Al: end, we might, we're going to talk.
Al: But there was a possible leak on some possible future stuff in the game, based on the map.
Al: I'm trying not to give too much away at this point that we will talk about right at the end
Al: after our spec, what we enjoy and our speculation, and then we'll talk about the leak at the end.
Al: So if you don't want to hear any leaks on what is coming to the game, you can drop it at that point.
Al: won't be anything after that. I will make it very clear when we get
Al: to that point. Before that, we've got some game news. It's not a very busy week for game news. But we have some, as always. But first of all, James, what have you been up to?
James: Well, personally, I've been in the peak week of marathon training, which has been not enjoyable. I'm running 50 miles this week in total, which I don't know what that is in kilometers. I would probably say.
Al: Hmm
Al: I'm sorry, you play so much Pokemon Go and you don't know what the mild to kilometer
Al: conversions.
James: It's, well, that also counts walking in.
James: And that's a lot of like my, you know, that sounds right,
James: for 50, yeah, and plus everything on top of it.
James: I think when I ran my marathon in November,
James: my kilometer weekly for Pokemon Go
James: was about like 150 kilometers walked, which was,
Al: I was going to say did you not do like the 200 kilometers in just over a week for one of the levels?
James: well, yeah, that marathon was a mistake
James: because that was also packs unplugged weekend here
James: in Philadelphia, so other friends of ours were in town
James: and I wound up walking a marathon before I ran one,
Al: Oh. Personally, I would say that any marathon is a mistake, but, you know, that's, yeah.
James: which is not smart, you are not supposed to do that.
James: So, I mean, I would not disagree with you.
James: This is very stupid when I'm doing,
James: but I've been training over the winter,
James: so this is peak week.
James: I've run 30 miles this week,
James: and I will be running 20 tomorrow morning,
James: because there's a half marathon here in Philadelphia,
James: And I'm going to run this.
James: So I'm going to wake up at like five in the morning.
James: I'm going to start running at 550.
James: I'm going to get to the start line at seven.
James: It takes off at 7.30.
James: And then I'm going to run for another 13 miles.
Al: Yeah, I was gonna see cuz you said trying to miles and then you said half marathon. I'm like those are not the same thing
James: No, I'm doing bonus miles before the race starts.
James: It's going to be great.
James: And aside from that, I am playing Pecopia a lot.
James: And I finished the story about a week
James: and a half ago, I think it took me about five or six days
James: to finish the story since it's released
James: because I was kind of doing one Pokemon Center
James: rebuild a day, basically.
James: That was kind of my benchmark.
James: So I finished it kind of quickly.
James: And then I just kind of got overwhelmed.
James: And I didn't like how my areas were.
James: And I was like a little bit overwhelmed.
James: So I wound up deleting that save file, which I don't
James: think I really missed anything.
James: I have to go get the hop-up stuff again.
James: Which I think I can just time skip to eventually and get it back.
Al: Certainly, just now, I suspect they'll release an update soon that removed the event and adds the next event in.
James: the hobbit, got it.
James: Because I know someone said, or I saw on social media
James: or something that you can access like the next event,
James: which I think is Sableai or something like that.
James: I'm not sure.
James: But someone was able to access it.
James: Or it's like in the game already.
James: Kind of like how Animal Crossing was
James: where people could access certain holidays after certain updates.
James: I think I saw that.
James: So I need to go time travel to hop at Braille.
James: And then grab a couple of the dandelion seeds so I can get that family again, or I'll just do the starpiece recruitment, but so I'm back in the first area, I just finished the Pokemon Center, but I am like building houses and I think I want to get each area up to level 10 before I continue on to the next area. So I'm recruiting Pokemon. There's a bunch that I've like gotten this go around that I didn't have at my first time.
James: And so that's been like a fun little experience. So I have like the entire Charmander line. They're all like mining away building me bricks like they are not they do not get breaks. They need to unionize these poor creatures. And I'm just working on kind of revitalizing the area. What about you?
Al: [laughing]
Al: Cool cool
Al: Yeah, I also finished the story much slower than you, but I finished it
Al: I can't remember it must I wasn't on last week's episode so I think it was a maybe someday last week or something
Al: I finished the story
Al: and
Al: Very much enjoyed the story and then my I wasn't quite sure what to do
Al: I didn't quite get as overwhelmed as you didn't delete the delete the save file
James: [laughing]
Al: Because I think if I were to like
Al: lose my save file, I would just be like, I can't deal with this anymore.
Al: Too much. That would be my overwhelm.
Al: I took a few days of just kind of pottering about here and there,
Al: building some things and then decided, notice how quickly I was, oh, yes,
Al: that's what it was. I built a subway system in rocky ridges.
Al: And so I think we've got three different lines just now.
Al: One goes out to the...
Al: the museum and background.
Al: One goes...
Al: One is just like the revitalized one in the mine
Al: and then one goes up through the farming area
Al: and then round a little bit that I'm using for mining copper.
Al: And then I realised how quickly I was
Al: increasing the level, the environment level.
Al: environment level and I was also
Al: like I was putting Pokemon in houses so that I was getting their areas
Al: re you know available for another Pokemon to spot into and just yeah it just I was
Al: suddenly I was at level eight and I was like oh this is actually really
Al: doable to get up to level 10 so I then just pushed it up to level 10 the same
Al: day and then I was like okay I feel like this now has to be this is my next goal
Al: so I went to weather wasteland and got that up to level 10 the next day and then
Al: to bleak beach got that up to level 10 and then that yesterday I ended up
Al: getting distracted by digging out the museum more so I didn't get sparkling
Al: skylands up to 10 but that will be my next one probably probably Monday or
Al: Tuesday I'll do that but yeah so I'm building them up to level 10 and then I
Al: think my next goal after that will be decks completion for Pokemon because I
Al: think I'm I think just kind of doing things here and there I've got
Al: close to half. So there's a bite.
Al: A bunch of them that will be awkward to get, but it doesn't feel like it's going to take me, you know, and insane amount of time to get the decks complete.
James: No, and you've you've seen like the boos and stuff right with I don't know how spoilery I can be this is not like super spoilery
Al: If it's a mechanics thing, I think where are this point where were we three weeks in on the release?
James: Okay
James: Yeah, and this is like in the second area. I don't know if a bleak beaches a second area or the third area. I guess it's up to you really
Al: So yeah, so it is an optional one, but I think oblique beach is being the second one because it feels like it's like if you once
Al: You've got them all on you've got your homes and you go to transfer. It's not the second one in the list
Al: So I think it's kind of like getting really the second one even though you can go to either one
James: - Yeah.
James: - So, yeah.
James: So once you free Mosslax,
James: I think you build him an environment
James: and you can start befriending him.
James: And if you give him certain foods,
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
James: he will boost things up for you.
James: So you can get like an encounter boost basically
James: for monitoring and habitat.
James: So I think with that and like a list
James: of something about the habitat you can build,
James: like it would probably take not that long
James: to finish like, grinding out.
James: This deck switches a very manageable one, all the bigger than I expected it to be.
Al: Yeah, I think I was pretty aware that it was 300 before release because there was like in the tree house
Al: I think they showed one of the evolutions as like 280 something or something like that and so it was like
James: Mm-hmm.
James: Yeah.
Al: Oh, well, it's it's obviously going to be about 300 or at least 300 me
Al: I don't I wouldn't imagine to be much more than that, but yeah, that was kind of clear based on that but yeah
Al: A good size certainly so yeah, we'll see how that goes
Al: who knows how I'll be in a week but that is where we are I think just in
James: What's been your favorite area to complete?
Al: general I've been enjoying rocky ridges because of just a sheer amount of space
Al: that that one has because obviously it doesn't have any watery areas so it's
Al: all land and yeah sure you can build out more land in in bleak beach or in
Al: Skylands if you want it but it also feels like you're then fundamentally
Al: changing the what it is right and that's I think there are two two kinds of
Al: pocopia players and there's the ones that want to rebuild what was
Al: Canto and then there's ones that want to just build whatever I like I think I saw
James: Yeah. Oh, yes. Oh, yeah.
Al: someone building Hoenn in the game which just feels dreadful to do right
Al: like come on what are you doing this is Ganto this isn't Hoenn just wait for the
Al: I hope you enjoyed it.
Al: I'm not wanting to completely dig out rocky ridges and turn it back into
Al: Peter City because I feel like there's an aspect of the world changes and if we
Al: keep trying to change it back to what it was then it will keep trying to change
Al: itself back again. Like it's it's the sort of
Al: thing humans do a lot. And right. Yes, I know it doesn't need to be this deep. It's a game, but it's also a game about climate change, right?
James: And I would say, where I look at like, what is it, the Skylands, basically.
James: And I'm like, how would I even make this back in a saffron city?
James: Like, like, there is that one bridge that kind of connects to the underside of like the
James: silt coat tower, but the rest of it is just so broken.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that, that, that would be a lot.
James: And I'm just like, how, how would I go about putting this thing back together?
James: I'm like, it's impossible.
Al: Uh, yeah. Okay. Cool. So before we keep going down the, the
Al: Pocopia thing, let's, let's talk about some news. First up, we have grave
Al: seasons. I've announced their release date is the 14th of August. So
Al: not having all these games in your head all the time. grave seasons is the, it's
Al: stargy, but one of the people in the villages are murderer game. Yeah.
Al: I, I can't tell whether this would actually be fun or whether it will just be weird.
Al: And I think it could be really good and add a different dimension to these kinds of games,
Al: but also it could be like a
Al: I don't want to a mystery game in my farming game. Maybe. I'm unsure.
James: I'm happy for the people who's like brain like the itch the scratches for them because I'm sure there is a group of people who want like a murder mystery slash like cottage board game.
James: I don't know how prevalent of a community that is, but I think hopefully this, you know, works for them.
James: I guess like that's kind of the thing about super successful games like Stardew is they have so many of these copycats and I'm wondering like as the host of this podcast who's done this for years now.
James: like about what's the what's the hit
James: rate on these like kind of copycat games and like being really good.
Al: Oh, yeah, most of them are terrible.
James: Yeah.
Al: So there's two kinds of stardew clones.
James: Oh.
Al: There's the stardew clones where they are just trying to be stardew, but maybe trying
Al: to do it in a way that they prefer how it would work, which is why stardew exists.
Al: Stardew exists, because our abysmoon were not making games that Eric wanted to play,
Al: and therefore he made the one that he wanted to make.
Al: And that's fine, but the problem with that is that has been done many, many a time.
Al: that's not interesting.
Al: And the other one is, it's stardew, but, right?
Al: So like you have the, it's stardew, but you're in space.
Al: You have, it's stardew, but it's in the past.
Al: And this one is, it's stardew, but one of the players is a murderer.
Al: And it's certainly an interesting hook.
Al: I just don't know how it's going to work, how it's going to feel actually playing it, right?
Al: It's the same thing with like film and TV, this question.
Al: I often think which is like that's an interesting idea, but how do you turn that into something that's actually enjoyable to watch?
James: Mm-hmm
James: Yeah, especially because like I'm guessing it's going to be it's a game of small scope
James: So it's probably going to be the same storyline for everyone so it even kind of lacks
James: replayability in a way
Al: Yeah, I don't know about that. That's a good question, because I had been assuming that it was
Al: randomly generated, but it does talk about it being a narrative based game as well. And so that
Al: we'd imply that it's the same because you're not going to make a whole story for every single
Al: individual in the game. That's a lot of work. But it's also not so it's bloomhouse that are making
Al: game. Yeah, they have a
James: like the movie, movie studio.
James: Oh.
Al: Blue House games division. Let's see if they'd what if they'd done before nothing I've heard of.
James: Cool.
James: We did Meghan too.
James: Hell.
James: And Meghan.
Al: Look, look, look Megan. Megan was fine.
James: The only movie I've seen in two years.
James: So I pull, it was fun.
Al: Blue House have an interesting hit rate just in general, right? Like some stuff I really like and then some stuff is not great.
Al: Looks like Blue House games has been around since 2023 and they've made like five games so far,
James: How nice.
James: Oh wow.
Al: but I'm not heard of any of the others before, and so I have no idea if they're any good.
James: I do hope that great Jesus has a Meghan cameo.
James: I will not hold that help.
Al: I highly doubt it. All right, so yes, that comes out on I've lost my tab the 14th logust on
Al: PC, Xbox, PlayStation, and Switch.
Al: always good when you've got a similar to an AI release like that.
James: Yep, and it's day one for Xbox game pass players yes
Al: Well, all five of them.
Al: Loftea have announced that they're closed beta.
Al: I hope you heard the air quotes there is releasing on the 22nd of April.
Al: I always love the different names, the different people decide their game releases are going to be in.
Al: whether it's alpha, beta,
Al: closed alpha or the next one closed beta or the next one closed alpha.
Al: We just like everything's got a closed beta is just an alpha, right?
Al: What are you doing?
Al: Just just call it what it is like why why do you need to complicate these things?
Al: Whatever.
Al: Yes, so that's coming out in the 22nd of April.
Al: So if you are if you backed, I presume it's a Kickstarter reward the closed beta.
Al: Yeah, Kickstarter backers.
Al: I'm still not sure whether this game is real or not.
James: It does look really cute!
Al: This is one of those ones that it feels like.
Al: I'm not sure whether you were aware of this.
Al: What was the one artopia?
James: Oh, the trailer is 18 seconds. That's great.
Al: There's a longer one. I see a longer one on their Steam page.
Al: But yeah, this is this game's like a heartopia and stuff like that,
Al: which are all these like technically they are games,
Al: but I don't know who would play these because they're just such terrible versions of games.
Al: And this has always run alarm bells for me in loftopia.
Al: a lot not lost to be a loftier see that's
Al: the thing it's another game that ends in i_a_ that's probably why i'm suspicious of it because all of the the scammy games end in i_a_
Al: it's also a multiplayer one so that's always another red red flag so we'll see
James: Yeah, massively multiplayer even.
James: Having mostly stuck with traditionally published
James: cottagecore games like PCOPIA and like the harvest moon a wonderful life or story of seasons
James: or whatever they're calling themselves these days. It's kind of interesting to see
James: like just how big this industry is and I think like obviously this kind of thing exists in
James: AAA space to rate like with games like what was that one that just closed down that
James: was like massive. I think of course of a concord which was like an overwatch ripoff
James: but there was another one recently that was like yeah the slightly more successful concord.
Al: Oh, yeah, I know the one it was that was up for like three weeks and then they they shut it down. Yeah, I can't remember what it was
Al: There's so many of these that it's hard to keep track of them, but I know that I know of the one you're you're talking about
James: I know what and it was like the big reveal of the game.
James: And everyone's like this looks really boring and the game was functionally fine and just no
Al: Yes, yeah, yeah
James: one cared because like overwatch exists and this is kind of like that but at a smaller scale.
Al: Yeah
Al: Yeah, no, I think you're you're definitely right, and I think it has the same sort of problem as you know overwatch clones and stuff like that because
Al: contest core games and
Al: overwatch clones and stuff like that. They are games that are designed to be
Al: You're always game. You're all the time game
Al: You're forever game, right? Like they're designed to be you will sink in hundreds if not thousands of hours into these games
James: Yeah
Al: and so you can't play everyone. Trust me.
Al: I have tried.
Al: Yeah, no, you're definitely right. Like...
James: And I think the biggest issue with games like this is like the only successful
James: Triple-A titles that we've seen are kind of just like
James: games that have a massive IP attached to them kind of like Pokemon Unite being
James: like a League of Legends and
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
James: Marvel heroes being an Overwatch like, right?
James: It's pretty successful, but they're also Pokemon and Marvel's and it's just kind of like I don't know how a game without a massive IP attached
James: Doing this kind of like always game strategy is ever going to work
Al: Yeah, yeah, it can happen, but it's so rare that it basically won't, right?
James: Yeah
Al: So like, start you doing it incredibly successful, uh,
James: Yes
Al: not going to happen again.
Al: And then you have things like, uh, power world, power world made it,
Al: but also did it make it because of the Pokemon comparisons or did it make it
Al: because people were intrigued by it based on that or did it actually do it?
Al: because people like it as a game.
Al: It's hard to know, yeah, not sure.
James: Yeah.
Al: Well, speaking of Stardew clones, next we have Super Zoo Story, which is Stardew Bot Zoo,
James: Yes.
Al: which I mean, honestly sold me the moment I first learned about it.
James: Yeah.
James: And looking at like the images and screenshots,
James: it is, it is starting.
James: But as someone who sunk hundreds of hours
James: as a child at his U-Tikum, I'm actually intrigued.
Al: Yeah, yeah. Well, that's my thing is for people who aren't aware, I'm not a big management style
Al: game person. I used to be when I was younger and I had more time to like just sit on my computer
Al: and play games because I didn't have any responsibilities. But now as a 35 year old
Al: parent, I just want to sit on the sofa when I'm not doing stuff and so I, that's not a fun way
Al: to play management style games. So the idea of being able to do a zoo game that is uh,
Al: I have a character and I'm walking around and doing stuff. You know, it's much easier to play
Al: with a controller and on a steam deck or whatever. The news for this is that they've released,
Al: they're releasing their closed alpha on the 9th of April and that goes out to all backers
Al: on Kickstarter who supported the alpha access tier. So yes, yeah, that's pushed back a bit from
James: and a first half of 2027 release.
Al: from where they're original one.
Al: And I think it was originally meant to be the end of this year that their full release was, so it's now next year, which is probably when I'll play it.
James: - Yep, it looks really cute.
Al: Yeah, I'm looking forward to this one. I'm looking forward to and next we have overthrown have released a new a very small update and I don't normally talk about small updates like this, but there wasn't a lot of news so I felt like I would talk about it.
Al: have released steam achievements. That's it. That's the update.
Al: If you've not seen this one before, James, the fun thing about this one is that you are, like,
Al: Naruto running around and throw, like, you can throw trees into your, like, your, your log maker.
Al: And then it will make logs, or you could even, like, pick up your log maker and run into trees.
Al: And like, there's just lots of silly physics type stuff with it, which is fun.
James: Yeah, I'm looking at it. It seems really cute
Al: It's also definitely not Zelda Breath of the World at all.
James: No, I could just say that out
Al: And it definitely isn't meant to, you know, your clothes definitely aren't meant to look like Link. Not at all.
James: I did see the main character just sprint over water.
Al: Yeah.
James: The zany, like, I don't know how to describe it, but like the art style or art direction.
James: It kind of reminds me of like, spiral in a way where it's like super exaggerated.
Al: Yeah, I can see that. Yeah, yeah next we have the Sprout Valley have announced that they are finally steam deck verified
Al: I don't know what's changed here because I played this game on the steam deck like a year ago, and it worked
Al: I didn't notice any issues
Al: So I don't know why they weren't steam verified before, but no, they are
James: It's cute. I like the little, uh, the little pixel art
Al: Yeah, it's nice. I will say it's quite low in terms of features
Al: If I remember playing it, it was fine and enjoyable for a few hours, but then you very quickly run out of stuff.
Al: It's very heavy. There is our story, but it's very short.
James: uh
Al: And then you're just kind of like, I'm just farming really, does not match your doing after that.
Al: True, true. But they probably have a game they're already playing for that is the problem.
James: and for some people, that's all they need.
Al: We were talking about it before.
Al: And our final piece of news is Carl Island have updated their roadmap.
Al: Their 1.3 update is no longer going to include kids grow up.
Al: That is going to be in a 1.4 update.
Al: I am okay with this except with one thing.
Al: For those who aren't aware, this is the second time they've done that.
Al: They've moved the kids grow up into a future update.
Al: The problem is when they did it last time.
Al: They didn't move it out of the 1.3 update.
Al: They added a 1.2B update after 1.2 that had some things in and didn't add the kids grow up.
Al: And the problem I have here is this is the sensible thing to do is moving something out of the update into a future update and keeping the version number.
Al: But why didn't they do that before? Why did we get the 1.2B?
Al: And now we're getting the 1.3 that doesn't even have the stuff that they wanted to put in the 1.3.
Al: So we still get the stupid neck.
Al: I don't know what this means. So they've said that there's two new, there's two.
James: Ocean and kisses.
James: Also, the image is hysterical.
James: It's just like this ombre colored woman,
Al: It's a silhouette.
James: except for her lips, which are bright red.
Al: Well, for that's the kisses.
James: And also, there's a puffer fish behind her.
James: And its lips are also big and red.
Al: So, it.
James: But the man has normal.
James: He does not have super bright lips.
Al: Of course he doesn't kiss you. So it seems that so they're adding two new data balls that's presumably the kisses.
Al: And they're adding a mere folk festival and then some quality for life improvements.
Al: It feels really much like they were struggling to figure out a name for this update and they were like, oh, ocean and kisses, why not?
James: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: It's like just you don't need to give your updates names. You can just give them the numbers, right? You have they have a name. It's the one
Al: 1.3 update. There you go. There's your update. They must be really struggling with this. The kids grow up feature now that because it's been I think the 1.2 B update was last October or something. So like they keep pushing it. It's obviously bigger than they were expecting.
James: Yeah. I mean, I guess if you age up these characters, you have to rewrite dialogue for them.
James: I might do a bunch of stuff. I'm sure the kids, I mean, I can see like a young girl here in this
James: like little update photo thing, but I'm sure there's like a young boy version of their options as
James: well. And I'm sure like, because I remember in, um, I know I keep going back to this game,
James: but like a wonderful life, you could like give your kids like little career or hobbies or
James: and stuff, and that would impact the dialogue as well.
James: So, I could see how this could easily spiral into something much bigger than anticipated, which is why you had the 1.2B and that 1.3 and that 1.4 kind of cables.
Al: Yep
James: Also, do you have a goat? There's a goat in this picture.
Al: Having a kid is one of the few things I haven't done in this game, but I haven't played it for ages either so
Al: I don't think I got a goat. I got most of the animals. I don't remember there being goats. Maybe that's new. I'm not sure
James: You get your children grew up and you also can get a goat.
Al: Why not
Al: Everybody loves a goat, right?
Al: And then they're teasing another update 1.5 and it's called the poke.
Al: If I remember correctly, poke you always the city you move out of, so why why are we going back there?
James: that would be interesting. Maybe it's going to be like a commerce area or something
James: kind of like Animal Crossing City folk or something.
Al: So we're going back to our capitalist life
Al: that we ran away from.
James: Yes, or at least just to visit and chop.
Al: Although important to remember that Stardew
Al: is still a capitalist game because you are making stuff
Al: and selling it to make money.
Al: And you own a farm, you own the capital, literally.
Al: You are the capitalist.
Al: All right, that's the news.
Al: Woo.
Al: All right, so we're gonna talk about the Pocopia map
Al: Specifically.
Al: I haven't written in the phone bill point overall, I'm not really sure what my overall point is, we're going to talk about the map. There we go. Shall we talk about some areas?
James: [clears throat]
Al: So, first up we have weathered wasteland that is, let me just, let me just get my list up here so because I always find it hard to remember exactly which one is meant to be which.
James: Earth's one is fuchsia.
Al: There we go, yes.
Al: As someone who started on Gen 1, I should be better with Gen 1 areas.
James: Yeah, I kind of started with gen one. I watched the anime when I was a kid
James: But I didn't have my own game boy until gen two so silver was my first game, but I like experienced gen one without ever playing it
Al: Yeah fair enough It feels like it feels like the least recognizable of them to me
James: So yeah, with their way slans sure is fuchsia city
James: from kind of
Al: because as it's the starting tutorial area you basically are like here's area and you're like okay
Al: how is it meant to be future other than just like the topology of the land I guess and also the
Al: direction of a...
Al: the other areas, right? Like, oh, rocky ridges is vaguely in the direction the future city was and stuff like that. That's... that's... that's about it. It's just like the land is vaguely shaped like future city was.
James: I mean, you also find the Koga costume in one of the houses, and I think the bigger thing
James: is, and I think let's go Pikachu Eevee. I can't remember if I was on Harkel and Silver as well,
James: but the road path is also very similar, so that kind of like arched red brick
James: pathing is very similar. So even before we really got into the game and the trailer and
James: to figure out this was like a post-apocalyptic conto region.
James: People were kind of assuming this might be a few should, just because of the road tile, because it was so distinctive.
James: And I think both HeartGold's social over and let's go peek at you.
Al: This is going to be one of my problems in general with this game is having no visual memory.
Al: I can't like compare it without physically looking at pictures of them next to each other.
James: - Here, I found a picture of Fuchsia
James: from Let's Good Pikachu Eevee.
Al: I see what you mean.
Al: Yeah, okay, with the like, the arched bricks.
James: Yeah, there are Tred bricks with the borders.
Al: Yeah, that is quite similar.
James: I'm even found a picture of the little character exploring
James: like by the houses and the house is actually kind of look
James: a little bit similar to, sorry, similar to the houses
James: that we're like in brew ends.
James: Around the way, around the way, slams. I mean, they do have pink, um, the pink placer. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Sure. Sure. Okay. The pink. Fine. That's that's about the extent of it, right? It's like there's pink. Okay, fine. I'm not I'm not trying to say it isn't and I'm not trying to say it is like I get why people are like it's so obvious. It's just to me it was the least recognizable of of them.
James: Yeah, yeah, I mean also it was completely like dried out
James: When you first get to it, and I'm like currently waiting I like watered so much of it myself in my new playthrough
Al: [laughter]
James: And I'm like waiting for more rain to come so I can stop
Al: The other thing, I guess, is that it's very clearly
Al: tutorial area, where it has a little bit of everything,
Al: so you can be taught about basically everything.
Al: It's a pretty well designed, I think, tutorial area as well.
Al: I don't know if, if you, if you say to me, choose a tone in cantal.
Al: that would be a tutorial area for, you know, a game like this. I'm not sure I would have chosen fuchsia, but it was designed pretty well because you've got the C area. You've got a lot of different blocks and different types of materials and stuff like that.
Al: And obviously because of where it is in the world, it allows them to have the three connections to different places in.
Al: Which feels relatively sensible, right? Like, because we're at that we're vaguely in the south, but also those three areas are in three different directions.
James: you even have the road to pallet as well. So you have access to all the other areas. And I mean,
James: I guess it is kind of weird to start in fuchsia, but I guess the other option, which I'm
James: surprised you didn't go with was just sticking us in pallet town again. So you know, I'm perfectly
James: fine with them kind of mixing up conto for the first time and forever.
Al: Yeah, I guess the thing with putting us in Palatone is that you wouldn't be able to realistically
Al: have the connections to all the other areas from there, right? And I think that's the advantage of
James: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Al: here. You could have done the same for, you could have made sparkling Skylands with, you know,
James: - Yeah.
Al: Saffron or sell or if you'd done a sell or don't or something, you could have done it there.
James: That would have been a while there to start it.
Al: It would have been. That's I think it doesn't work because of how they decided they wanted the work that
James: - Yeah.
Al: you couldn't have done that. But if you'd wanted to design it differently, right,
Al: then you could have done that, but obviously wouldn't have worked this way. So I think it makes sense.
Al: I do find, I have a, I have a, a lower, a head cannon, that's what people call it,
Al: about why cycling road takes you to Palatone, if you want to hear it, because I've heard people
Al: complaining, they're like, why is cycling road taking you to Palatone? That doesn't make any sense.
Al: I...
Al: my theory is because obviously this is a long time in the future from the games we've played. I can't remember if we've got an exact time, but like we're talking decades after.
Al: And so my theory is just that they just cycling road just gets extended to multiple places.
James: Yeah, which it could easily go to.
Al: And one of those is pallet town. And absolutely because you've got that you've got that there. So you just need to when you go from future.
Al: instead of then turning up to go up the way you just keep going straight you could absolutely add an extension on there. And of course the it's just narrow straight line because that the other area of the map is just lifted into the sky now.
Al: So there is no other part of cycling road. So it's the extension is now the only the only cycling road.
Al: So I like the idea of one of the things they start trying to do too late to save the planet is cycling more so they extend cycling.
James: Yeah, I can't figure out time frame wise when this is set and the Pokemon timeline is just something that I to be quite frank and never really been able to bring myself to care about that much.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
James: But it's interesting seeing the lore bits in this game, especially around clearly what is like notes about Professor Tangrove being like caught as a tangle and like it seems to be implied that that is oak.
James: Okay, so how does this work time when that's because oak was already old.
James: Even with your presumably at the end of the game, the final scene is like your train are seeing the photo of you as the ditto.
Al: Well, we're assuming that it's your trainer, right?
James: Yes.
Al: There's no confirmation of that.
Al: That's certainly what would be implied.
James: Yeah, I would say that's a pretty strong implication though, especially with the ditto plush in the window. So I'm kind of curious.
James: How long the humans have actually been gone or like how long the terrible weather has like lasted on the planet because that actually would be really sad if like they're not they're not going to come back, but like your human came back and like they were like, you know, 12 or something and they left and other like 82.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, I mean, it's probably deliberately left vague because they don't want to deal with those questions, right?
James: Yeah.
James: but they bring them up in the first place. They like raise, they raise these questions and then they
Al: They do
James: like, well, we can't really answer these questions in a satisfying way that's not going to be like,
James: not make sense or just be really, really depressing. So we don't want to deal with them, but we're certainly
Al: Yeah, yeah, that's fair
James: going to like raise the specter of it, which I guess is like a tradition of Pokemon at this point
Al: more breezing questions and I don't know I'm
James: with like the amount of, yeah, like, oh, like all the grave, all the graves and like all the weird stuff
Al: answering them. Yeah.
James: that happens in these games and you're just like we're just never going to enter any of this.
Al: Yeah. Yeah, it's like how Jen won introduces the concept of Pokemon dying. And it's like,
James: yep yep how yeah
Al: yeah, that is a thing. Okay, but like, what's the difference between fainting and dying and
Al: it's like, no, no, no, we're not going to question that.
James: and i'm sure i'm sure there's some like brand like what they would call like a branding
James: bible or something where it's like pokemon can be dead but they can never like die in the story
Al: Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And also, and yeah. Yeah. Yes. But, but also our ghost Pokémon,
James: line which is so like in congress but like that's clearly what the the rules are like a pokemon
James: I cannot die on the screen of the game.
James: But they can be dead already.
James: Um, but apparently Scarlett and Violet Pokemon can kill.
James: So that's also good tonight.
Al: the ghosts of Pokémon who died. Or are they separate Pokémon? And that is never really
James: - Yep.
James: - Or are they people?
Al: answered and it's kind of hinted at
Al: being the case that they are in fact the ghosts of dead Pokemon because of course they're
Al: introduced in Lavender Town which is explicitly a grave town you know is built around the graves of
Al: dead Pokemon and what do you find you find the ghost Pokemon and so yeah they could just be that they're
Al: attracted to that area because but I don't think that's how it was originally first thought it
Al: it might be how they want to.
James: Yeah, it's clearly one of those things where like, the breadcrumbs are there and they just clearly don't want to like deep with having to answer or figure it out in a way that's going to be satisfying and still be like PG.
Al: Yeah, well, that's the thing. I think I wouldn't be surprised if it's like there are people on the team who want to raise these questions and want to deal with these things
James: Mm hmm.
Al: But then it's like yes, but we're also cater to kids, right? So we can't truly answer those things
Al: Okay, so the other the we're gonna talk more about
Al: Some things here if you care about being spoiled probably
Al: Best to wait until you've played the game in general before you listen to this because I want to talk about
Al: the
James: As I have already described at the final scene of the game.
Al: Well, true, that's fine. Whatever. Maybe I'll put something in and post. I don't know, but I want to talk about the
Al: The the cavern with the or what they called this mysterious slates
James: Yes.
Al: What is that meant to be?
James: Do you want to know where do you now?
Al: Well, no, I know what you get from it. I'm aware of that, right?
James: Oh, yeah.
Al: I know what the purpose is in game.
Al: I know what, but like if we're talking about the map, and we're talking about this is future city, are we to understand that this has always been under future city?
James: possibly
Al: Because there's nothing like this in any future city that I'm aware of.
James: Oh, yeah, I mean that is interesting because I remember from like the original game
James: There was that diary intro. It's like we went to South America, and I'm just like oh, that's weird
Al: [laughs]
James: In the game. It's just like yep South America's a place that exists in the book one world
Al: Yeah.
James: So that's where they found you initially, so I guess maybe this is just like a retcon skip concept
Al: Okay, I guess we are spoiling it then.
James: - Oh, thanks, sorry.
Al: That's all right.
James: I didn't even think, oops.
Al: I'll decide what to do in the edit whether I keep it in or not, but.
James: - Yeah, yeah.
James: So I guess this is a way to retcon it into the contour region,
James: which I guess makes sense.
James: I guess it's also just like a fun little quest line.
James: There might not be deeper than that,
James: just to like give you some long term.
Al: Right, but right, but, but, but the makers as we just discussed, they make us ask these questions,
Al: right? And so like, my question is, where did this come from? Has this always been under fuchsia city?
Al: Has it, is it maybe, is it under, because it's obviously further north than most of the area? So,
James: So with that, is it under the Safari zone?
Al: it's a, that's what I'm wondering.
James: Yeah, that means, like, fun lore implication in the future.
James: And the future contour remake will, we will obviously get, or something, where the Legends
Al: Yeah, I can't I cannot believe they put this area. Okay. We're talking about it. Mu. Right. Why they put mu in weathering wastelands rather than in bleep beach. I can't believe they did that to us. That's just shocking.
James: contour game can never let it go.
James: Yeah, it was weird that it was in the starting area as well because like you reach it and it's clearly unknown. And it's just like, Oh, this is something. And then like you get these slayed so sporadically throughout the game.
Al: [chuckles]
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I've had two so far.
James: I had about four when I finished the game the last time and I don't know how I got that many because in my new file, I have two already.
James: But I haven't kind of going out of my way to break open the glowing spots.
James: So I am curious as to how long it will take and I know I'm curious to see how powerful that MOSLACS boost is with this because you can get more like glowing spots as well as one of the boosts.
James: So I forget what all of them are. One is like get friendship better with Pokemon. One is like Pokemon appear and have it hats more frequently. One is like maybe like more resources from like trees and stuff.
James: and then one, I think, is more treasures appear.
James: So, yeah, I don't know what.
James: Maybe Legend's Kanto, we find you, ruins and Fuchsia,
James: and then Professor Oak, who is somehow still alive or whatever in the ancient Kanto.
James: He's like, "We're going to build a safari zone here to protect it and low."
Al: That, that would, that would certainly be a fun one to do if it was like a past game where we, we encounter it and then we never see it in any other game again because it's, it's not, it's just not uncovered until yeah, that would be fun.
James: Yeah. It's buried under the safaris now.
James: I do remember as a child watching the Pokemon anime and the safaris on episode was cut because
James: there was a gun on it. And the next week they just kept referencing ashes like 30 tutorials and
Al: Yes.
James: I'm like, did I miss something? Yep. Yeah, I'm like, there was like, there's just a stampede
Al: It was bizarre.
Al: Like, I remember that as well.
Al: And it's like, why are there so many tourists?
Al: How did he get these?
James: You think these are all ashes.
James: I'm like, "Wend?"
Al: [laughing]
James: Like eight-year-old me was like, "When did this happen?"
Al: 'Cause like, any other, like him getting one Pokemon
Al: and you just be like, oh, I just must not remember that.
James: Wasn't a fan.
Al: But how do you miss him catching so many tourists?
James: Yeah.
Al: The only other, so there's a couple of other things.
Al: One is, I was actually watching, there's an archaeologist
Al: I found on TikTok who's been talking about Pocopia
Al: and she's been treating it, the game like she would
Al: an actual archaeological site.
Al: And it's very interesting 'cause it's obviously
Al: not perfect, nothing about games ever is.
Al: but it actually seems to be quite accurate to how
Al: like sites would seem like in terms of like things not just being gone they are like broken versions of things like you get the like broken down path and stuff like that.
Al: And if you follow the path of fuchsia city towards oblique beach there's like I can't remember what she called it but there's like basically a landslide down onto the path.
James: - Yeah.
Al: And if you break away you then encounter more path and you can keep.
James: - Yep.
Al: breaking away the mountain and keep going down that path.
James: - I would suggest doing that this morning.
Al: It's fun that they have that, although I'm not sure where that path is actually meant to lead because I don't remember the being a path in fuchsia city in that direction.
Al: But that's a minor thing.
Al: It could be some a path that was built after the games I guess.
James: - Yeah.
Al: interesting that they've done that.
James: - Yeah, no, because I remember digging it out
James: this morning, or the first time I played the game.
James: And I was just like, like it's gonna be ugly
James: because it's gonna be like the broken,
James: the path's gonna be broken and then I dug it out.
James: And I was like, oh, never mind.
James: It's just like a landslide or whatever.
James: Or like, it got buried over time.
James: So that was like kind of fun.
James: And yeah, I just, I like this area a lot.
James: It is so weird.
James: It's like vertical it is though, especially with kind of the part of the map near Bleak Beach where all the houses and like the farm land is up top that's kind of like inaccessible, which is interesting.
Al: So my
Al: So my my again my head cannon to this is that is land from sparkling Skylands as it went up into the air
Al: Because sparkling silence isn't just
James: - Hmm.
Al: Land in the air there's gaps between it as well. So that land had to go somewhere
James: - Yeah.
James: - Now, I fell on Puchsia.
Al: Yeah
Al: Because it's the same with them
Al: Bleak beach it has a bunch of extra land as well that you wouldn't have hadn't familiar and it
James: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Both of those are like south of
Al: That area and so it would make sense that some of it would just kind of like fall on to those areas
Al: Well, it makes sense doesn't make sense that landa's just rising into the sky
Al: But if it would it would make sense that it wouldn't just all go up into this guy
Al: So that's that's my theory about that
James: Yeah, I do like this air and like being able to I'm more thoroughly exploring these areas now that I'm taking the game a little bit more slow.
James: And I was surprised that I completely forgot that there was the squishy clay that was what was surrounding on it. So I've been able to like already make bricks for the next area, which is kind of nice.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
James: But then I was also digging around somewhere and I ran in the like poke metal and I was just like, Oh, like obviously I can't do anything with this yet because I don't have like food, but I'm just like, Oh, I had no idea this stuff.
James: I was even here like this early in the game.
Al: Yeah, it's around the, there's like a whole tunnel network around the, um, the Mew area,
Al: which I, yeah, I was, I was investigating that the other day as well.
Al: Uh, the only other thing I think of this area is the, the, the rocket lighthouse was that
Al: lighthouse, like built specifically for, because obviously it's the rocket, the team rocket rocket
Al: lighthouse. If you will.
Al: And I guess that's why that didn't exist in early games as well as because that is built from scratch as like they didn't retro fit a lighthouse to be a rocket right.
James: Yeah, I mean, I like it. It was a cute little, I kind of like how that was the gym, the gym challenge in a way.
James: And being able, it's kind of funny because you kind of hit a wall, I fare with one item.
James: Um, you kind of hit a wall with it and then like you kind of fly through the last few challenges.
Al: Yeah, I was the same until you get to the one where it's like
James: It was, it was the paper. It was the, I couldn't find how to get paper.
Al: Yes, yeah, yeah, cuz I don't think you can do that to bleak beach, um, but if you're not by the time I got to
James: and...
James: Oh, I didn't have it until this guy lands.
Al: So I had it in bleak beach and because I
Al: Wait, no, no, I guess you're right. It is guidelines. Yeah, that'll be why
James: Yeah, because you get the paper I have to give it to Metacros. I think you can get like
Al: No, you're totally right. You're totally right. You can't actually get any waste paper until
Al: That point I don't think unless there's
Al: a Pokemon that will let to it.
James: Yeah, you can get like litter or like something but you can't make clean paper or
James: I think I got papers or something and I'm like, oh, this is the thing I ate and it was not the thing
Al: Yeah, I think you can get it earlier, because you can get, you get
James: It was like an I it was like a physical like furniture item instead of like the resource
James: I'm sure you and with some other Pokemon, I'm guessing
Al: troublesh automatically in bleak beach if you follow the story and troublesh can turn
Al: waste paper into paper. But I think, I don't think you can get the
James: Oh, okay.
Al: waste paper that way. You'd have to have a book one with litter, which there
Al: probably is one.
James: - Yeah.
Al: But I'm not sure if you get it as automatically.
James: And I didn't know why I just kind of assumed
James: trouble should only take the non,
James: I forget the item name,
James: but like the garbage and turn it into an iron ore.
Al: not non-burnable, not non-burnable garbage, and know the, any, the recyclability, all of them can do both of them.
James: - Yeah, yeah.
James: - Yeah, and turn that into an iron.
Al: Uh, what is it, the, why does Sara be not tell you what a Pokémon litter is? It just says they have litter. Great. Bye.
James: Yep, and I I want to like build out my areas to be more like a little bit optimized where the pokemon like gather stuff and like be able to like water the crops kind of by themselves.
James: And that is something that you can do it just takes planning and that's just like a lot of forethinking for me, I guess I like my palette area.
Al: Yeah, I can't figure out, but I'm pretty sure there is a Pokemon you can get that
Al: litters waste paper, but yeah, you have to specifically get that otherwise you can't
James: I'm sure there is.
James: Yeah, because I first got it when I got the tang and then I was like, oh, no, I'm drowning a paper,
James: and then I was able to do like challenge four or five, six and seven and eight immediately.
Al: Yeah. All right. Shall we move on to, sorry, what are you going to?
James: So yeah, the, I don't know, I was going to say the rocket, the rocket thing was kind of cute,
James: and I liked how after it took off, you could go underneath and see like their little hideout and
Al: Yes. Yeah. All right. Let's talk about bleed beach. We've got, I guess, the biggest
Al: thing about that is the SSN. That was a fun thing in the map. The rest of, yes.
James: And also the lighthouse there that we finally have an answer as to what the Machop was building after all of these years.
Al: Did we not get that in? Hargoldt's old server. Did we not? Was he still building?
James: Now he was still just stomping away.
Al: I thought he had. Yeah. Well, okay. There you go.
James: Yeah, he was still building and everyone was like,
James: 'cause he was still building and golden silver.
James: And everyone was like, "This is the funny
James: "and this thing is never gonna finish building."
James: It's been three years and now we finally have a lighthouse.
Al: How long does it take to build a lighthouse? That's a question.
James: Apparently, we're three years.
Al: I suspect that it's an organizational issue and they just kept changing what they wanted.
James: Yeah, I also love that the lighthouse in the old games is in the middle of the city
Al: Yes. The SSN was to me the most interesting part of this map because obviously it's quite
James: Which like short
James: But yes the SS and as well
Al: intimidating. Like you can very much, it's very clearly there in the background the whole time.
Al: But it takes your while to actually get out there because obviously you don't get
Al: Surf straight away. You could, I guess.
Al: Rebuild the bridge, but you're still quite early on in the game at that point and so you're not,
Al: you probably don't have the recipe for planks and you might not have a lot of stuff.
James: Oh, no, you get it pretty early because you have to rebuild the bridge to get to Kyogur.
James: So they give you the plank recipe, so you can just kind of go ahead and build yourself
Al: Okay, I'd missed that because I just, I did not rebuild the bridge to get the properly.
James: right.
James: And I did.
James: Oh yeah, but they expect, oh nice.
Al: I just used dirt.
James: But no, they give you the recipe, I think.
James: The recipes in this game are so weird how they give them out.
James: But Kyogur appeared on the waistlamps for me, and then I built the bridge out to Kyogur.
James: So that was yesterday.
James: So I have like a hundred wood piece, wood bridge pieces that I have just kind of saved up.
James: And I'll probably do that when I first get to bleak each is built out like, like, rat out
James: my area to get to the S&S.
Al: Yeah, the the other thing as well though is what certainly I felt when I hit like beat bleak beach
Al: I was like oh wow this game is a lot bigger than I was expecting and that was my first overwhelming moment and so that's what I switched from
Al: I'm gonna do everything like in detail to I'm gonna do this story now and
Al: So I wasn't really going out to the SSN, but I was very much aware of it
Al: I think you have to go at one point but to do this because I think you have to go
Al: get clever but I wasn't really focusing on that and I certainly wasn't
Al: going out until I had to and by that point you have surf to go over there anyway.
James: Yep. Yeah, I did see that someone has fully restored the SSN on social media. It was a video
Al: I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised at all.
James: right now, which seems fun, but it's also so like empty inside, even though it was like full,
Al: Yeah.
James: I was just like this seems not worth it. I thought about what if I tear the entire thing down?
Al: Oh, interesting.
James: I also saw someone like broke the game by trying to remove the water from under the SSN
James: or they like broke
James: the ocean and the water was doing all kinds of weird stuff because they were like sucking up all the ocean water.
Al: Yeah. The ocean does not like when you take water out of it. It goes weird. It's not like a river.
James: Yeah.
Al: It gets really weird. You can fix it because I had a little area that I'd mugged up and I fixed it.
Al: I feel like they could have dealt with the water in the sea a bit better.
James: I do have.
James: The water is very funny because it just kind of ends at some point.
James: So actually in my withered wasteland area,
James: I dug out a tunnel to water the area,
James: kind of near the Skylands entrance in that big field behind.
James: But, so I have water running through half of that.
James: But it just kind of ends midway through the pond and obviously they they want you to use like the water spit up ability to fill on the other side. So my water just like half not there. It's kind of sad looking.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I actually didn't go into that area until just a couple days ago, um, because
James: Oh nice. It isn't so interesting because what's it called. You briefly mentioned doing like a
James: professor oak challenge or something with this game and as a joke. No, but it's so funny because
Al: Yeah, I said it mostly as a, as a troll. I don't think I was being serious about it.
James: in the sparkling skylands during my first go around, I got print plump and didn't really think
James: about it, but I just got print plump the other day because I had the water wheel working
James: in that area. And so I'm like,
James: Oh, this is like, you can kind of bust open the game in so many different ways that I haven't thought about. And I think that's really interesting.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's interesting because I guess by default you would probably get it
James: I guess the earliest would probably be bleak beach if you're lucky because it would appear in the water wheel
Al: Yeah. But you've also, you've also got to set it up. I think there's a, there's a task to do it in rocky ridges, which is how which is where I got from plop in that one.
James: But I just never got it until
James: Yeah, oh yeah, there is for
James: Oh nice
James: But yeah, I already have like bastio dawn and shield on like I have a bunch of stuff already
James: And I'm kind of having fun like just exploring what I can actually get
Al: And we'd end up being very, unless you move Pokémon between the areas,
Al: it would end up being quite bottom heavy in terms of like,
Al: "Oh, so many of your Pokémon being in that one area."
James: - Yeah, I plan on moving them around.
James: Like I wanna build some houses or like habitats.
James: Not habitats, I'm sorry.
James: Like houses are enclosures to house like entire families.
James: But like it's super difficult already
James: because they only spawn in 20 Pokemon on the map, right?
James: So they're like, you need a Pokemon with fly.
James: And I'm like, I know I have hoot hoot.
James: But it's just not here.
Al: [laughing]
James: And it's an habitat.
James: So I think I'd have to use honey to force it to spawn.
James: But I was just like, huh, I need a fly Pokemon to build this like leaf den or something or leaf hut or cottage or whatever.
James: And it's just I can't the game is fully like, you do not have a Pokemon with fly.
Al: That's funny. I'd love to know the logic it chooses for which Pokemon it wants. It keeps
James: And I was like, this is so I'm like, huh, I know I have like pitchy and hoot hoot, but they're just not here.
James: Yeah, and I wonder how it makes those decisions like
Al: out and which Pokemon it deserves.
James: when you're trying to do tests like that, because I had like six Pokemon out of the seven that I needed to build the structure.
James: And it was just like, there's no fly Pokemon.
James: And then I like did something where I like went into the Pokemon center or something.
James: And I figured when I came back out, it would have like generated the hoot hoot or the pidgey.
Al: Yeah, I ended up losing my shell also one point because I accidentally broke their habitat and they were deep and they were despondent at that point and
Al: even like Pokemon with fly or teleport wouldn't
Al: Respawn it
Al: So I ended up and it up just waiting and then the next day
Al: They respond and actually I had rebuilt their habitat and when they respawned
Al: And they moved back into their habitat that I had previously destroyed.
Al: Which was interesting, but yeah, they came back the next day, but I was like, oh no, because it was the only Pokemon I hadn't moved from a habitat into a house.
James: Because my doomy and war turtle are very angrily walking around because they don't have a house right now.
James: And I'm just like, I'm dealing with this later. Like I need to build so much crap.
James: But that's good to know.
James: But yeah, back to the bleak beach. Yeah, for a million. I really enjoy the area. I think it's like a really, I think like this is a really fun area that I'm going to have.
James: A good time rebuilding, like making like a beach town.
James: I've seen so many images of like row homes, people are building and like kind of creating like almost like a meek-a-nose looking area.
James: So I think that'd be fun to experiment with. And I think it's just a pretty strongly like, I don't know, the area is just kind of like themed and structured already really well.
James: I kind of like how it's already like half a town and half a beach.
Al: Yeah, I think that's my problem with it is I have because it's so as you say there, I have less
James: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: of an idea of what I would want to do with it. So all I did with it was just rebuild the houses
Al: and then put the Pokemon in there. And I like, but what else would I want to do? Like, I could do
Al: some like islands maybe, but like that doesn't feel like it just, it that like I want to do
Al: with skyscrapers in the sparkling silence. And so it kind of feels like I'm just doing the same
Al: thing again there. And it's like, well, I could go like underneath and have like underground,
Al: but then I'm doing the same thing as rocky ridges. So I just not sure what I would want to do.
Al: I guess maybe the most interesting thing you could do is just house everyone in the SSN,
Al: but again, you're not doing anything new there. You're just recreating what's there.
James: Going it out. Yeah. And I guess my biggest question for you is like, what are you going to do about because you said you wanted to complete the decks.
Al: Yeah.
James: The three massive temples, which are physically enormous, like I'm looking at these things and I'm like, where the hell would I even put these
Al: I'll come on, there's an easy answer, in Palatine, yeah.
James: In palette.
James: I don't know if I want to put them there though.
Al: Well, the other option is there is...
James: I kind of want to I feel like I kind of want to put them thematically where they'd make a little bit of sense.
James: And then at the same time, I mean.
Al: That's a possibility, but the other thing I can think is
Al: there is so much land in rocky bridges that is just unused.
James: Yeah, so you could just stick them on top of the right of the mountain basically. Yeah.
Al: Yeah. Hollow out a bunch, because there's a whole bunch of stuff you can get rid of,
Al: And then just put them over there.
Al: You go from the Pokémon Center up to the area where you find the farming stuff.
James: - Yeah.
Al: And then you go up that cliff.
Al: All of that area to the end and then right to the end as well is just mine.
Al: There's nothing else there.
Al: So you can mine like 10 layers down before you start even getting close to hitting anything.
James: Yeah, I guess it would be thematic to stick Moltress into a cave for no
Al: And then you've got the entire width of the map that you can use.
Al: Okay, so you could, yes, so you could put mulch res in rocky ridges and then you could
James: discernible reason, but yeah, underground.
Al: put and think and make a sky island for Zapdos because although yeah, yeah, because it's
James: to power the city.
James: Yeah, that makes sense.
James: And then I guess you could put Articuno
Al: like, that's not what I was thinking but that would be an option I was thinking make an island
James: in the wither wastelands, I guess, in the war.
James: Oh.
Al: off-bleek beach for Articano.
James: Oh, that makes that work too.
James: Yeah, Articuno is just like they're all just so mad.
Al: Your other option is hope that the DLC brings the other areas that would make more
Al: thematic sense for the three of them into them there, but.
James: I don't know if I want to wait that long to get the samples or maybe I can just build
James: them in the tear them down, uh, turn them down foundations.
Al: I will also say that this is the area that for me felt the most like the area that it was
Al: originally, even more so than sparkling Skylands, which obviously is much is, is quite obvious
Al: as well, but has, because of the like the broken apart part of it feels more like you're
Al: piecing together clues to figure it out rather than like, because it's basically fact
Al: that there were lots of debates about whether it's settled on our saffron, right?
James: Yeah, and I think
Al: Like there was a lot of that, whereas this was like very clearly this is vermilion.
Al: It's so clear.
James: Yeah
Al: It's what it is. There's the SSN for crying out loud. Right. Yeah. Well, that was, yeah, exactly.
James: Because even when I saw a self-coe, I was like, oh, there might be the department store
James: Because I hadn't gotten into it yet when I got into it, I'm like, oh, this is self-coe
James: I was like when I was just seeing it from a farm like that might be the department store that'd be weird that for
Al: I was convinced it was the department store even after we rebuilt it as self-core. I was still
Al: convinced we were just rebuilding it differently. But when people explained to me that I was like,
James: You
James: Yeah, but yeah, when I got to bleak beach, I'm like, oh, yep
James: This is a million from the from the tie line to the S. M. San to just like the way that the city looks
James: I'm honestly surprised they did do some kind of reference to like surges gem with like a broken building with like a bunch of trash cans
Al: Uh, I mean, is that not what the, um, the area with the, the, uh, what's it called?
James: I think that's supposed to be the gym, but it's clearly just kind of not at this point.
Al: The furnace, yeah, is that not meant to be the, the gym?
James: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Yeah, it's, I mean, it's broken down so much that it's not clear, it's anything, but I think that's, yeah.
James: Yeah, I guess that would be the gym, I'm a surprise or the warm or trash cans just because that was so.
James: Especially because I remember in.
Al: I would love the idea of like, it was, it was such a terrible situation that it's all,
James: Yes, well remember when it was like in sun and moon, I think whether it's like we have lieutenant surgeons.
Al: The building is gone but there's still the
Al: trash cans, they're still there!
James: The gym in here for no reason and I was just like, I guess sure.
Al: Why not? Why not?
James: The clearly game freak is enamored with the stupid thing.
Al: I hated that so much.
James: Oh yeah, it's an awful gym.
James: But ever since sun and moon, I'm like, well, they clearly love it.
James: So I just assume it's going to be here.
Al: Yeah well.
Al: Anything else to talk about would be be.
James: Honestly not too much.
James: I did enjoy the little resort island kind of off to the side of the big lighthouse.
James: stuff's just kind of there for, you know, to turn it over.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
James: And I was like, oh, this is cute.
James: But yeah, I guess we can move on to rocky ridges, which we've kind of got over.
Al: - Yeah, I guess it's the least kind of stuff there
Al: in terms of stuff that you would recognize
Al: from the previous game, which probably partly to do
Al: with the Vataputaton is such a small town, right?
James: Until...
Al: But, well, okay, we'll get there, we'll get there.
Al: But in terms of the things that you would recognize
Al: is basically just the museum, right?
Al: Like there's nothing else there that is something
Al: you would recognize from the existing game.
Al: There is a lot to the map as a whole,
Al: but it's mostly things that exist
James: - Yeah.
Al: because of the clear eruption, right?
James: - Yep.
James: And it is one of those,
James: I guess it's a mountain moon,
James: pure city kind of thing.
James: And mountain moon is now active, which is cool.
James: But yeah, it's a massive map.
Al: Well, cool, cool, cool in concept, not so cool if you were living there before.
James: - Well, no, but they're all gone.
James: But yeah, it's an absolutely massive map.
James: I think I was like you,
James: 'Cause I think I went too.
James: Rocky Bridges first, and I was just so surprised about how big it was.
James: And I was like, "Oh, I kind of assumed whether Wasteland's would be kind of be like one of the bigger areas."
James: And then when I saw that they were all kind of the same size, I was like, "Oh, this game is bigger than I thought it was going to be."
Al: Yeah, it's funny though because like Rocky Ridge is felt really small to me first because you just walk in and it's just this little kind of tunnel essentially to the main area and then you've got this really small area, but then you you pop into the mine and you're like, oh, no, okay, right, and then if you
James: I think I started following the mine tracks and I was just like, oh, this is, and I found
Al: Yeah, yeah exactly and then you find the museum and you're like, it's massive. It took me ages to realize the museum isn't actually underground.
James: the museum and I was like, oh, this is a lot.
James: Yeah.
Al: You can see the sky from the museum
James: Oh, yeah.
James: I think when I approached it first, I found the, um, like outside exit to get to the museum
James: and not like the tunnel under.
Al: Yeah, okay, and then I also I mined all the way around the outside of the map and I was it just kept going
Al: I was like this thing is it's huge. It's just interesting because most of it is just nothing
James: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Which I guess makes sense because future city is mostly nothing
Al: Because it's an early game thing, but I love the museum the museum great though
James: It really is. It's so much more detailed than I would have thought. And the fact that
James: gave me gold was terrible things, I was like, oh, and I first saw giving gold, I was like, oh no.
Al: You can always tell whether someone's playing Pokemon games now or not because I heard someone say like this little dude who's looking for museum stuff and I'm like what do you mean this little dude he's going to go what are you talking about how did you not know get me go?
James: I was like,
James: - Yeah, and I just thought I'm just like,
James: they're better not be coined in this game.
James: Like, I will have a mental breakdown
James: if I have to find 999 coins on top of everything else
James: there's to do it.
Al: I'm enjoying rebuilding the skeletons as well, which is fun. Oh, there's a little bit weird that you rebuild the skeleton and the Pokemon's like yeah, I want to live here next to my carbs.
James: - Yes.
James: I know, next to my skin, I have skin now.
James: I do wanna build a house and just stick all
James: with the four synophosels
James: with their like their skeletal hormones
Al: Well, they are decorations, so...
James: and like a bed at the table.
James: And be like, here you go.
James: Yep.
James: But now, I like that area a lot.
James: It really, finding out the cooking system
James: of the game was also very interesting as well
James: and finding the chef Charlotte.
Al: Yes, for a foreign area that has so little in terms of buildings, it gave you a lot of
James: - Mm-hmm, mechanical stuff.
Al: mechanic. Yeah, so you've got the cooking and you've got the graveler and you've got the farming,
James: and the Rotom.
Al: I feel like there was the road time as well. Yeah, it's a lot. Yeah, yeah, that too.
James: And the mine cart.
James: Which is a whole system because I think we've also seen the social media videos of people building like music tracks and using the mine cart to like activate the the sounds.
Al: I got my first musical note thing today.
Al: It was in my daily shop.
James: Oh nice, but yeah, it is a massive like a massive map.
James: And I can't wait to hollow out part of the mountain to stick moderate bone.
Al: Yeah, just how, how much can you do before you get bored?
Al: It's like 30 seconds of going forwards and then eating a, eating a steak and then another
James: I mean, what's that get the
James: a beam burger?
Al: 30 seconds.
Al: It's just so much.
James: Yeah, I'll have Graveler and food by then, so I'll be fine.
Al: All right, let's talk about sparkling Skylands then.
James: Yes, the big one.
Al: I think it's the most interesting
Al: to me because of the different the islands being so visible like you can see a lot of the secrets whereas with the other areas you got to dig down to find the secrets you got to explore whereas here is like the secrets are almost like in your face you know it's it's stuff like you see very quickly when you're moving from one island to another you can see like the holes in the central island and the track going through it.
Al: And you're like okay I see there's a lot here I like that and all of there's so many buildings with so many secrets in them as well that you can just like walk around and see what they are.
James: Now I can.
James: Yeah. And I, even when I was playing this, like that entire South area with the gate back
James: to the wastelands with all of those buildings, I barely explored any of them. And I could
James: see that in my pokedex or whatever, like all of the lore stuff I was missing was like
James: kind of buried around in the skylands. And I knew it was kind of going to be in that area
James: where all of the buildings were where you found them. I think art of war. Yeah. But I really
Al: Yeah. Yes.
James: liked this area. It's really pretty. It's kind of constructing just how small it is.
James: And you have to, like, kind of get the ability to kind of travel between them easily through
James: Dragonite. So it was, like, difficult to manage, like the Pokemon on the space while the habitat
James: I needed when I first initially did it. And I can't wait to get back here again just
James: because I don't know if I'm kind of, like, taking some Pokemon from, like, place to place
James: with me. I'm just sticking them in like little grass patch.
Al: Yeah, yeah, this is the one this is the one of the main areas that I've not got to level 10
Al: Yeah, and I'm still not quite sure exactly what I want to do, but I think I want to like rebuild some skyscrapers and and house them in there
Al: But
Al: This like one of the sky islands. I've basically not done anything on the top left one
James: Yeah, it's a thought of Gyarados with a Gyarados one. Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I think so I think so I've not even been there so I couldn't tell you
James: Uh, that's how you get waterfall to go up waterfalls with lappers.
Al: Oh, I was I keep seeing videos of people doing that. I'm like I can't figure out how to make it work
James: Yeah.
Al: So it's another ability that I've just not got right
James: Yeah. Yep. Gyarados teaches you how to get waterfall.
Al: Well, I know what I'm doing tomorrow then
James: You know, I don't know learn how to go up waterfalls. I can't remember what it's a small
James: little question you could do, but it was pretty manageable.
James: It's the most annoying thing about this guy, and I was trying to take Pokemon from
James: Island Island.
James: I remember I was trying to rebuild Southko and I'm like, okay, I have Gyarados, and I needed
James: it for the flyability, maybe a camera boy I needed it for.
James: Or I just needed, basically, a body to help build the tower, and I'm like, well, I know Gyarados
James: is there.
James: So I went to grab it, and I would not travel with me because it couldn't fly, which
James: It's just funny.
Al: Yeah, you have to rebuild like the... Yeah.
James: fly from Ireland, the garris one like fly from Ireland Island, which is funny since it's in Pokemon
James: like the darkest flying in a circle. I'm like, it flies. It's fine. It just like, Garrett is
James: can't follow you. And I was like, oh, but it fast travel kind of breaks. That's how I just travel
James: back to my house and get your garris with me. And then I just stuck it in four patches of grass.
Al: Uh right. Fair enough. Yeah, I've also, I've also been considering moving the Pokemon
James: I said, I'm like, "This is your home now."
James: You live next to the pond.
James: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Center to the mental island. I feel like that, because if people don't know you can, uh,
Al: you can get like, uh, you can move buildings and that includes the Pokemon Center. You can,
Al: you can move that, which is, is nice. And I've not moved any of them yet, but I'm,
James: Animal Animal Crossing could never.
Al: But that one in particular I am considered.
Al: Yes, well the advantage of the middle island is that if you if you if that's your central area, if you have your home there and obviously you got to have your home next to the Pokémon centers so you got to build that there as well, then you can you can glide to any of the other islands because I think it's the highest up one.
James: Yeah, it's in a particularly like weird spot.
James: - Yeah.
Al: Not that they're matches, no, because I have the magnum ability, but...
Al: Still, still.
James: I love that little best of the ability when I was doing some,
Al: Well, as a reason is post-game.
James: I know. I saw people making insane stuff and I saw the magnimatability and I'm like,
James: I'm going to wait until I get this magnimat thing. And now I'm like, I'm going to do a slow and deliberate.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
James: So yes, having like break a block and then
Al: I'm enjoying it for, like, replacing blocks.
Al: It's very useful for that, which Kevin did not know was a thing you could do until yes,
Al: until the other day when I told him.
James: But having to break a block and then suck up the
Al: It means you can change what our Pokemon's house is made of without making them homeless.
James: block, you just broke and then like put the new block down into
James: - Yes, yeah.
Al: I think for being the biggest and most interesting area, we don't have a lot to talk about here.
James: Yeah, I mean, it's saffron city, um, so it is the biggest and just kind of most interesting, like it's very expansive, I guess the interesting thing is like the Pokemon buddies, because I don't think I knew that, um,
James: take a ton had like a special form or whatever, going into it and the fact that she's kind of just like this engineer who's building these towers of trash was fun and I don't exactly know everything her ability does the engineer skill.
Al: Yeah, that was fun.
Al: So basically it reduces the building time to an hour.
James: Uh, oh, do I have much? Oh, wow.
Al: So instead of a day to build something, it down to an hour.
Al: So instead of it being ready the next day, it's ready in an hour.
James: Oh, so that's why because I thought that was really interesting how the saffron tower was like an hour for each, Lord, because of tank of time. So if I didn't have tank of, well, I think you had to have tank of time build that then. Yeah.
Al: Yeah, it's because it's because you've got tingkatong. Yeah
Al: You have to yeah, it doesn't let you do it without it, but yeah
James: but I figured
Al: Theoretically theoretically if you were able to do that quest without tingkatong it would take you four days to do it
James: I thought I'd take a date regardless of even two days because I thought we were rebuilding the entire thing at once.
James: I kind of, like, just abused myself of that notion very quickly because it was so few resources at first.
Al: Yeah
James: And then I was like, I will leave it the first floor. Cool. Three more to go.
Al: I think if you pay attention to the dialogue, I think it does make it clear that you're just building the first level book who actually reads dialogue, right?
James: Okay, you know and at that point I'm like yeah, I'm building something new
Al: Yeah, yeah, because this is the last area here like let's just get through this. I want to finish the story now
James: Yep, yep, and then I guess the other interesting thing was finding the karate dojo kind of buried in the middle of the
Al: Yeah
James: In the middle of the mountain or one of the islands
James: It is kind of funny how I do want to know what happened to saffron like the most where I'm just like how did we go from like
Al: it's just rising. It's just rising in the air. You know, it's just rising. That's all
James: City to floating islands I know
Al: why do you need an answer? It's just rising. It was rising in the air. My question is, is it still
Al: going up? Because the records imply that it's very slow, but it was taking hundreds of years.
James: Yeah, I mean
James: Yeah, so it's like a rocket
Al: I think because I think that's the biggest indication we get of how long it's been because
Al: they talk about a time frame that it would take to get into the sky.
James: Good high.
Al: And so the implication is that it's being that at least that long and I can't remember what it was that it said
James: Raising questions, they don't want to answer.
James: Because presumably, your trainer is still alive at the end.
Al: Maybe who knows who knows
James: Maybe implied.
James: But yeah, I enjoy the area. I enjoy this area the most.
Al: Infared
James: And I really like, I just personally found like the color of like the grass, like the most pleasant,
James: which I know is stupid, but I'm just like, oh, I really like this.
Al: Yeah, yeah, okay, so we've also got palette time
Al: But there's probably not much to talk about that right like because it's it's basically just sandbox, right? There's nothing else really do it
James: Yep, hit the sandbox
James: And the three birds
Al: The three birds. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, you get the the plans for the the altars
James: Absolutely massive massive buildings
Al: But he moths
Al: But in terms of like the actual area it's not meant to be interesting is meant to be just your sandbox
James: I guess it is interesting that this is where the EV, the stock EV and the evolutions.
Al: You
Al: Yeah, yeah, um, what I think it would be fun to do though is just go through some areas that I think might be fun to
Al: To talk about um, I've just noticed your your addition to one of my points is yeah, I forgot about the name of that place
Al: And I was just kind of we'll get to that
Al: So one of the areas that I think would be fun would be lavender tone
Al: There's no other
Al: I've tried to think if there's many ghost Pokemon at all.
James: I know Mr. Viz Litwick, Gaslyline, so those are the main ones.
Al: Okay, I've not encountered any of them. So I was kind of like I'm trying to remember if I've encountered any ghosts. I don't think I have
James: I got Litwick in the first area with the gravestone.
Al: Okay, see I just got cube on a matter of work. I've not had anything
James: So the interesting thing is, if you actually like,
James: the gravestone is like two habitats.
James: So if you put flowers behind the gravestone,
James: Cubone and Meracle appear.
James: But if you actually do the candles in the food offering,
James: Litwick and I think probably Lampin or Shandler appear--
Al: You have to light the candle. Right, see that's, see I put food on the plate, but I didn't,
James: yes, which one I made or is someone?
Al: I didn't light the candle. Makes sense. But yeah, I think lavender tone could be fun,
James: Oh yeah, you got to light the things for the habitats.
Al: you could have a bunch more ghost book mon. Having, I think it would be fun if they had the
Al: the tower there, but of course in, well, here's the problem. It was replaced by radio tower in
Al: Golden server, wasn't it? So maybe
James: >> Gold's over, yep.
Al: we find out that there was like that we still had like it was hot. I don't know. There's this there's some interesting stuff they could do there. I think
James: Yeah, or they could have filled it with more corpses in the radio tower the graveyard and radio tower
Al: Yeah, sure
Al: Yes, it could be an it. Well, yeah, it could be an interesting combination of the two, right? Because like maybe there was an earthquake quake in the ground broke open and now you've got both of them merged together or something
James: Yes
James: Or they could be like radio died its podcast now
Al: You
Al: Cinnabar I also think could be interesting. I think it's interesting that we didn't get that because obviously that was one of the theories that people were having that the
Al: initial area was Cinnabar
James: Yeah, I mean, it was destroyed. I know. Yeah.
Al: Yeah
Al: Sure, but like that doesn't mean that we couldn't have it as an area, right? It was destroyed, but it was still there
Al: Like the the it's already post-apocalyptic, but
James: I know. I mean, even before that, though, even before the post apocalypse, it was like reduced
Al: The land was still there
James: I think a Pokemon Center? So.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but like that that I guess maybe it would be too similar to rocky ridges
Al: But you know having the being able to like excavate it would have been fun
James: I'm walking now. Yeah.
Al: But yeah, maybe maybe you're maybe it maybe it's just similar to rocky ridges
James: It would be something interesting to do something with the
James: open mind management as well. I don't know what they would do with it, but
Al: Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, look, we're not we're not here to write the story. We're just here to go. This would be fun
James: it was already kind of a it was already kind of a ruin.
James: Yeah.
Al: So really in his office a very obvious one
James: Yeah, that'd be really nice.
James: I don't know how to incorporate like the cape.
James: So really in Cape area and probably the, uh, the end of dungeon or like so we're
Al: Yeah, and you know there's going to be a nugget bridge joke reference you like rebuild
James: link here, or whatever somehow, which would be really interesting.
James: Oh, absolutely.
Al: it and then you get something from that or something like that yeah maybe because maybe
James: It's going to be the team rocket grant who can't speak English joke or something.
Al: there's something else to do with the the rocket stuff that you find there.
James: Oh yeah, that'd be fun. I do like to knock its inclusion in this game.
Al: Yeah, it's interesting how they dealt with that for more of that Kevin and
Al: Johnny talk about that in the in the previous episode the lower discussion
Al: [laughing]
Al: Um, I can't decide whether, so I, I, I also wrote down Victory Road. Um, I, I do worry that we would also just end up being quite like rocky ridges because it's like a cave system, but I don't know.
Al: And my last one was Orange Islands and you've written Sevi Islands next to it because of course I forget that the Sevi Islands even existed.
Al: Well see that's a thing. Are they meant to be the same thing? Is it just like the Sevi Islands is just the game version of the Orange Islands because of course the Orange Islands is only in the anime.
Al: - Mm-hmm.
Al: Yeah, but that's not the same as actually having unknown, right?
Al: Why not?
Al: [laughs]
Al: But if they're all on their own island.
Al: Yeah, possibly.
Al: I don't, well, the one thing I'm thinking of
Al: with the orange island is it would be fun
Al: if they had crystallonics.
Al: If we're adding in weird versions of Pokemon,
Al: that would be a fun one to have in there.
Al: Just as a reference.
Al: It doesn't even need to have a big story, right?
Al: I mean that would say they love their synchronicity that would fit in with the anime just now
Al: Yeah
Al: Yeah, and you had a couple of things as well
Al: [laughter]
Al: Good.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: And doing the, you know,
Al: doing Victory Road would give you that physical connection.
Al: [laughing]
Al: That's their problem to figure out.
Al: - Well, I was gonna, that's exactly what I was gonna say.
Al: I initially thought that, but then thought it wouldn't,
Al: I don't know if it would work.
Al: I feel like, give me two seconds.
Al: Yeah, I feel like you could do a lake of rage thing, maybe.
Al: [laughing]
Al: - Yes, give me two block jump.
Al: I'm scanning the list of Jotori areas just to see if there's anything else that would work well and a lot of them at the problem with the problem is that a lot of them are just the same as kanto areas just different, right, because I was thinking, or maybe golden rod, but then I'm like, but then you've already got saffron,
Al: To be fair, they can add the soundtrack in without adding in the area, but yeah.
Al: Yeah, no, that could be interesting. Anyway, yeah, I mean, I guess part of the thing is we just
Al: we're one more, right? Like we've enjoyed this game so much and it feels like there's a lot of
Al: possibilities that they could be doing and we would like
Al: You certainly
Al: It's gonna be November
Al: No, it's gonna be November like they're not gonna give up that that
Al: Release time
Al: Especially as like I am still very strongly believing that GTA 6 is not coming out this year
Al: And I think it'll come out in spring next year and so being in November means they've got a good gap between them and that when it eventually releases
Al: No, I think no, I think I think though. I think it will come out in spring 2027. It will be buggy
Al: It will be terrible and they'll spend a year trying to get it right, but I think they will be eventually pushed because like
Al: Rockstar are not immune to the issues that every game development company is having and
Al: What have they released recently?
Al: You
Al: Yes, the question is what's the real question is what's coming out first GTA 6 or the PS6
Al: Look just because it just because it will be stupidly expensive does not mean that they won't do it because they are tone deaf
Al: I would just love the idea that the GTA V comes out on PS3 and GTA 6, I'm sorry, on PS6.
Al: Like, it was PS3 and also came out in PS4 but that was later, it was initially PS3.
Al: There will never be a GTA 7.
Al: Let's let's get out.
Al: Let's get out right now.
Al: will never be one.
Al: Well, yes, yes, because that is in development.
Al: We are making it, okay, sure, I believe you, yeah, well, yeah, and that's the thing.
Al: them announcing, well, and them announce it while we get away.
Al: I wonder how long it was after that they regretted it and I was thinking about it.
Al: But yeah, like, when did waves being announced more than a year before release was unheard of?
Al: Not a thing they do.
Al: Well, I mean, those two things are probably linked, right?
Al: It- It- It- It'll- It'll be worth it.
Al: Yeah, but you you've got Pocopia, so you know
Al: All right, so just before we finish
Al: We're gonna talk about some leaks possible leaks
Al: So if you don't want to hear a bit leaking stuff you don't want to be leaky
Al: This is where you can drop off there's not gonna be anything else after this
Al: So there was our leak as part of the game freak
Al: leak that was was it last year or was it 25?
Al: Well, the Giggly, the Giggly was apparently 2020.
Al: Yes, the terror leak was, so the Giggly was Nintendo as a whole.
Al: The terror leak was game freak and that was, that was October 2024.
Al: So yeah, as part of that, there was a map that it has now pretty much like I
Al: It's just I'm presuming when there was so far.
Al: First release that it wasn't clear what this was because there's just it's it's a map with just some area names and some descriptions of the areas, but now based on what we know about the game is very clearly description of the areas for what as now Pocopia.
Al: I noticed as well that that's quite a dramatic difference.
Al: Yeah, I wish we got more stuff like this officially, right?
Al: Like they would even like after a few years, right?
Al: Like I'm not asking before release or even after shortly after release.
Al: I feel like, you know, five years later, give us some information about how you decided certain things.
Al: I think that would be really fun.
Al: Yeah, so again, if you don't want to know these, then tap out now.
Al: Yes, well, that's true also you say scrapped. It's possible that that ended up being pushed to DLC that that's a possibility
Al: You're right in the description does sound kind of similar to the parts of
Al: rocky ridges, but also
Al: Like you wouldn't really consider it burning like yet as lava, but it's not the same thing as fire, right?
Al: maybe yeah maybe maybe maybe um and just before we talk about these areas I would
Al: like to point out the areas that I asked for I wrote before I said I read this
Al: sure sure but like it's almost exactly the same list and it's not like there
Al: aren't areas on the map that do exist as well but
Al: or takelet or takelet tunnel another cave but it's just takelet and dug
Al: trio uh yes yeah
Al: Is it half you interesting? No, I yeah, I have I have Digglet and in my in rocky bridges
Al: It's funny because he just he does just disappear underground and then just pop up
Al: Mm-hmm. The hidden treasure is obviously going to be a reference to nugget, right?
Al: Yeah, but we've already had Mewtwo, that's the thing.
Al: Still, well he was trapped in the PC, I call it the other prokopon.
Al: Oh no, they only, the only human you ever encountered in the game.
Al: I love it, I love it.
Al: how sealed can it be considered if you're there?
Al: Maybe I can yeah, I don't know. I feel like I could
Al: Maybe yeah
Al: Yeah. Definitely, I mean, oh, well, that was the reason it was the first one on my list.
Al: Maybe that would be how the easiest way to get all of the berries.
Al: Possibly or I'm just wondering, like, is it the leftover area that Safron pulls out as it rises up into this guy, you just end up with this.
Al: I know, but they're next to each other. Like, you could see it being like the two of them quite connected. I've always considered them quite connected.
Al: uh yeah I mean there's the gym as well but um there's also they have to have um the the games the
Al: game studio as well because they're in one studio it will be the one area that's like
Al: perfectly preserved everything's in ruins except this
Al: and plushies that's where that's where you can get all you can get another version of all
Al: of the the um the toys the plush toys that you get wherever they're called well some of them but like
Al: or maybe maybe there's gonna be uh yeah i've got multiple eevee but maybe there's uh maybe there's
Al: a new mew one or something like that that you can get in there that gets you some crazy dream island
Al: Yeah, with it with the gates I
Al: Could see them theoretically doing some like end game like challenge type thing in there
Al: That like it is the final DLC and therefore there is a like a final actual difficult challenge
Al: I don't know what that would look like, but I could just like thematically
Al: I could see them doing something like that like there's a reason there is listed as the final one
Al: Yeah. (laughs)
Al: We already have one of those
Al: Yeah, maybe. Yeah. I just feel like the can't do Indigo Plateau as the final DLC area and not do
Al: something end gaming. And you can use all of the like how easy the battle it depends on how
Al: have any Pokemon you've encountered up to that point and the more
Al: Pokemon you have, the more moves you have.
Al: Yeah, well, I mean, I guess there's not a huge amount we can talk about them, but I'm intrigued
Al: to see what they are and I think the thought they've put into things before and the fact
Al: that obviously they had initial thoughts for these and then changed them and, you know,
Al: improved them in many cases makes me intrigued for what they will eventually have if this
Al: is in case what they actually end up doing.
Al: Hmm. No. Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I could see them doing two videos in the first two videos in the second, and then I need to go in the third.
Al: Ooh, that could be fun, yeah, yeah, and then, and then that's where we start getting the
Al: actual news about wind and waves.
Al: No... disaster. Yeah.
Al: Oh, so you're suggesting they could they could add like a brand new Pokemon in the final DLC of
Al: [laughing]
Al: I think that would be fun, I don't think that capable of doing that anymore, and so much as like, I think they could do that, but I think they would over explain it and on social media and stuff like that.
Al: Yeah, exactly. It's that sort of thing. I just don't think the capable of letting that be a case.
Al: Maybe, maybe. That's the best case scenario for what they could still be capable of doing.
Al: But even that I think is unlikely.
Al: Yeah, no, I mean, I don't disagree with you that it would be fun. Just not sure whether they would manage it in a fun way
Al: That's always the problem with them
Al: But I mean, I guess they've done things in this game that I wouldn't have thought they would have done, right?
Al: Like when we thought oh, maybe this is post-apocalyptic canto. I was like ha ha there's no way they'd do that and they did so
Al: Yeah, I guess we'll we'll see lots to lots to know and see all right. Well
Al: Wrap up there. Thank you. James for joining me
Al: And is there anything you would like to share with the audience is there anything you you want to to point them towards or?
Al: All right, you can follow the podcast on tumblr and blue sky at THS pod.
Al: You can send us feedback there or on the website harvestseason.club where you can also find
Al: links to everything to do with the podcast including a link to our patreon patreon patreon.com
Al: slash ths pod where you can get access to bonus episodes of the podcast and also access
Al: to the podcast Slack.
Al: I think that's everything.
Al: Thank you again for joining me, James.
Al: Thank you, listeners for listening.
Al: And until next time, have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Al McHenry with support from our patrons, including our
Theme Tune: pro-farmers Kevin Stewart and Alisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave and our music is done by Nick Brutus.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Al: Mm hmm.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Oh no, yeah, yeah, this game yeah I wanted some mindless gaming I didn't want to feel
Al: things right now. Oh dear.